IT Capstone Topic Approval Form
The purpose of this document is to help you clearly explain your capstone topic, project scope, and timeline, and to assure that they align with your degree emphasis. Without clearly addressing each of these areas, you will not have a complete and realistic overview of your project and your Course Instructor cannot accurately assess whether your project will be doable for the purposes of these courses. 
Of course, if this is a project that you have already completed at work or elsewhere, this should be easy to fill in! Most students use a project that they have already completed in the past year or two. In that case, you will write the proposals (Tasks 1 and 2) as if the project has not been done yet, and Task 3 as the complete post-implementation report.  
Complete this form and send it (via UGCapstoneIT@WGU.edu) to your Course Instructor for approval.  Once approved, you will receive a signed document in PDF format that you can upload as part of Task 1.

DEGREE EMPHASIS:  Network operations and security 
NAME: Matt Rondel
PROGRAM MENTOR:  Don Cook

ANALYSIS:
Project Topic –Network upgrade - B&B Manufacturing is a producer of complex machined parts, assemblies and kits for the aerospace, military, semiconductor, and contract manufacturing markets.The problem they are facing is that employees have made several complaints pertaining to slow connections to on premise resourses such as file stores ERP system and company wifi. Over the past few years the company has grown and they have added more network connected devices such as cameras, shop floor touch screens and tooling. Along with growth the company has also stated they want to replace an aging phone system with an IP based one.
Problem Statement or Project Purpose –B&B Manufacturing’s network is slow due to company growth and has no network segmentation or security. New switches will be installed and configured network documentation delivered along with training for IT staff.
DESIGN and DEVELOPMENT:
Project Scope
a.	Project Goal(s) and Supporting Objectives –
The overarching goal of this project is to provide B&B Manufacturing with a secure and reliable networking architecture with room for future growth.
b.	Objective 1: Site survey
c.	Objective 2: Purchase hardware identified for replacement
d.	Objective 3: Establish new networks, Re-IP network devices and create new dhcp pools
e.	Objective 4: Network testing
f.	Objective 5: Go Live 
g.	Project Outcomes and Deliverables – physical switches installed and configured 
i. Objective 1 Deliverables
1. Updated network toplogogy diagram
2. Site map
3. Network inventory
ii. Objective 2. Deliverables:
1.	Cisco 9300 Series switches
2.	Stackwise cables
3.	Cat 6 cabling
4.	Fiber cabling 
iii. Objective 3. Deliverables:
1.	Configured switches, configure to work with existing wireless acess points
2.	RE-IP devices and new DHCP pools created
3.	VLANS for departmental data security and quality of service
4.	Installed cabling
iv:. Objective 4. Deliverables:
Detailed system test report
V: Objective 5. Deliverables:
1.	Old switching equipment returned to IT department for disposition
2.	New equipment is up and running without issue
3.	IT staff is trained
h.	Projected Project End Date – May 31 2023

IMPLEMENTATION and EVALUATION:
Describe how you will approach the execution of your project – 
I will execute the implmetation of this project in several phases. In phase 1 I will conduct a site survery preforming an inventory and a discovery on how the network is utilized. Phase 2 will requiring using findings from phase 1 to determine what equipment and resourses will be needed. Phase 3 will began the implementation phase where systems will be installed and configured, phase 4 will be the test and evaluation phase. 
To evaluate the suscces of the projecta seies of tests will be preformed to ensure that segmented VLAN traffic stays on its intended VLAN.

✔ This project does not involve human subjects research and is exempt from WGU IRB review.
COURSE INSTRUCTOR SIGNATURE:  
COURSE INSTRUCTOR APPROVAL DATE:  
