


derive from "NETWORK_REFRESH"







Network Upgrade for B & B Manufacturing
Matthew J Rondel
Western Governors University 


  
Table of Contents  -WORRY ABOUT THIS LATER WHEN CONTENT IS IN
A.	Proposal Overview	X
A.1 Problem Summary	X
A.2 IT Solution	X
A.3 Implementation Plan	X
B.	Review of Other Works and B .1 Relation of Artifacts to Project Development	X
Review of work 1	X
Review of work 2	X
Review of work 3	X
Review of work 4	X
C. Project Rationale	X
D. Current Project Environment	X
E. Methodology	X
F. Project Goals, Objectives, and Deliverables	X
F1. Goals, Objectives, and Deliverables Table	X
F.2 Goals, Objectives, and Deliverables Descriptions	X
G.	Project Timeline with Milestones	X
H.	Outcome	X
I.	References	X
Appendix A	X
Title of Appendix	X
Appendix B	X
Title of Appendix	X
Appendix C	X
Title of Appendix	X
Appendix D	X
Title of Appendix	X

 
Proposal Overview 
B&B Manufacturing is a medium sized company of 275 employees located in Valencia, CA. The company consists of 5 adjacent buildings including administration, assembly, manufacturing and maintenance. (Authors note:  bldg. 1 and 2 will be mfg, bldg. 5 maintenance,  2 admin, and 3 assembly) Their network is a mix of multi-vendor hardware that lacks standardization, network separation and it includes equipment that has been deemed end of life from the manufacturer. Since the Biden Administration has pushed to bring more manufacturing jobs back to America the company has seen tremendous growth and because of this employees have made several complaints pertaining to slow connections to on premise resources such as file stores ERP system and Wi-Fi.  Along with this growth the company has also stated they want to replace an aging phone system with an IP based one.
As a former employee turned managed service provider (MSP) I was chosen to assist with documenting, proposing, standardizing, procuring, and upgrading the network infrastructure. This process included creating a network diagram of the current network infrastructure, discussing future technology with upper management and on-site IT staff suggesting future expansion such as the desired IP phone system, then proposing and installing a solution that will meet both requirements from a single manufacturer. Once the network design and equipment list were approved, the company would requests bids from approved vendors to purchase and installation would take place to install and configure the new network equipment.
	This project began with interviewing the on-site IT staff and upper management to determine the needs and expectations of the network, as well as discussing future growth of the company and IP phone system requirements. While these interviews took place, notes of the existing infrastructure was taken and network topology mapping software was used to probe the existing network to confirm logical topology. Physical inspections of adequate cooling and power, along with fiber connections between buildings. 
At this time , the fiber optic cabling that connects the five buildings were tested and verified to see if it could handle the proposed new network equipment’s transmissions speeds (authors note the connection between 2 and 3 is no good and new lines need to be redone/retrenched). 
Phase 2 of the project consisted of designing the network, including the new IP address schemes and VLANS, and compiling a finalized list of equipment for each building and location. Once this list was complete, it was emailed to various suppliers for pricing for a request for quote (RFQ) during a waiting period of two weeks for best pricing. After a two week period of pricing had ended quotes were evaluated and supplier was selected. Once the supplier was selected and scope of work was determined, the equipment was ordered.
Phase 3 (authors note swap out these phases if they don’t align with task 1 paper) began with receiving, verifying and configuring the new equipment. The new equipment was powered up and configured at the administration building and installed at the corresponding building locations. 
The process was carried out one building at a time beginning with the core of the network - Building 2 administration main distribution frame (MDF) then progressing to each intermediate distribution frame (IDF) within the building. Throughout this document, the main distribution frame (MDF) refers to the central connection point for each of the buildings to the rest of the network and IDFs refers to the smaller network closets within the buildings across the corporate campus. The justification for this approach was that it minimized the downtime of each of the buildings and any problems that might arise could be addressed without affecting the rest of the company. (Problem isolation?).

Incorporate Two tier or leaf and spine architecture
Vlans, re-ip networks

Authors note: incorporate Spanning tree previous issue somehow into the issue of future proofing: 
Review of Other work
Migrating and standardizing on a manufacturer for network equipment simplifies the administration and reduces network management overhead. During this process, extensive research was done to search for advice, tips and similar outcomes to gauge the success of the project. According to Ciscos_ best practice guide, it is recommended best practice to deploy a two tier network architecture design or also referred to as leaf and spine because of ____ (Cisco, date). The two tear network or leaf/spine consists of ___. The leaf layer is the first tier of the campus where end user devices such as computers, printers, phones, IP-based cameras connect to the network. The spine or core (?) is where the heart of the network where servers and network storage devices reside. 
	After the physical design of the network was completed, it was time to design the logical layout.  The original network was a flat network meaning it had no IP address security segmentation or Virtual Local Area Networks (VLANs). A VLAN is a logical group of workstations, servers, and network devices ___ definition from an article hopefully find how VLANs help with network traffic or speed (Cisco, DATE). Authors note check out business routers article-
It was determined that B&B would benefit greatly by creating VLANs for similar devices and groups such as servers, IP-based cameras, shop, guests, IT management and the future IP-based phones. Per Cisco’s best practices article “Create a “Dead End” VLAN for Unused Ports”(Cisco, 2020) recommendation the default VLAN would be changed and a “dead-end” VLAN would be created to place unused ports in until they are needed. Access control lists (ACLs) would be created as well to either permit or deny access to resources such as printers, servers or devices with confidential information.
	After the information was gathered for the physical and logical design of the new network it was time to look into prioritizing and routing traffic. Since B&B had expressed interest in upgrading to an IP-based phone system in the future it was extremely important to incorporate this into the network design. Go into detail on an important need of IP based phone system like jitter
Changes to the Project Environment
	B&B fundamental but very obsolete setup. Within the server room in building 2 there was 

 Several Netgear unmanaged 24 port JFS524 10/100 switches, a SonicWALL NSA 220 Firewall, the IP-based cameras were connected to Linksys SRW2024 power-over-Ethernet (POE) switches.
Author note: Main server room MDF: ISP modem <-> sonicwall <-> netgear 
Netgear<-> servers 
Netgear <-> Linksys POE switches (2)
In the rear of the building 2 in the IDF there was 4 of the netgear switches connected together with cat 5 cable with one of them being home run to the MDF with a 100mbs Ethernet cable

(Side note propbley wont keepremember these existing switches are unmanaged meaning plug and play devices without the need for complex setup. They come with a fixed configuration and no not allow any changes to their configuration. Managed switch allows for better control, prioritization, of network traffic
two tier network plus vlans )
The current network design was a flat network with no IP segmentation or security. The problem with this setup that if a broadcast packet is sent out from an end device in building 1, that broadcast packet is sent to every building and network device connected to the network. One of the issues in the past the On-site IT staff mentioned is that they had experienced a network loop and had crashed the company network and taken it down for a few days. A network loop is caused when a patch cable gets plugged in from one network port directly to another. This causes the packets to reflect back to the source in which locks up the switch.
The issue with lack of network segmentation is that when a customer or supplier joins the network to do a presentation any malicious software or virus that could be present on their computer could inflect the entire company. 





 <! - - producer of complex machined parts, assemblies and kits for the aerospace, military, semiconductor, and contract manufacturing markets. Since the Biden Administration has pushed to bring more manufacturing jobs back to America the company has seen tremendous growth and because of this employees have made several complaints pertaining to slow connections to on premise resources such as file stores ERP system and Wi-Fi. Along with growth the company has also stated they want to replace an aging phone system with an IP based one. -- >
Outside of minor repairs such as a defective unit or cable B&B’s existing network has not seen any changes for over 13 years. B&B is a spread across 5 adjacent buildings with primary servers in one building and network equipment in another. Upon inspection several obsolete HP Procurve 1810G unmanaged switches were found as the “main network” backbone” as the local IT called it along with numerous Linksys SG300 power over Ethernet (POE) switches used for IP security cameras. Also worth mentioning the air conditioning systems in all 5 building are sharing the same network. For their firewall.. maybe not this tz-104? Move this 
Management network?

The Proposal Overview section (suggested length of 2–4 pages) introduces the problem and overviews the solution. It contains the "road map" for the rest of the paper. First, describe the problem the project addresses and then provide an overview of the project and the paper's organization. Finally, summarize the capstone's highlights. Include the following in your summary:
The proposed 
A.1 Problem Summary

Summaries of the problem should include the context in which this problem exists. Summarize what will and will not be included in the project. Provide sufficient background information so that the reader can appreciate the need for a solution and the approach taken in the project.
A.2 IT Solution
Describe the proposed IT solution to the problem. Identify the relationship between the problem and the proposed solution.
A.3 Implementation Plan 
This section should contain the details of an implementation plan. First, provide details on the different phases (if applicable). Then, explain how the project will be carried out and why it will be carried out in that manner. Finally, discuss the plan for implementing the project.
Best Practice Recommendations for the Catalyst 9300
https://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/support/switches/catalyst-9300-series-switches/products-installation-and-configuration-guides-list.html
A.	Review of Other Works and B .1 Relation of Artifacts to Project Development
●	See Task 2 part B & B.1 and watch Review of Other Work
This section reviews works done by a third party relevant and related to your project. Review at least four other works relating to your topic. Summarize (in satisfaction of B) online articles, videos, interviews, white papers, case studies etc., produced by industry professionals, and relate (in satisfaction of B1) each work to the proposed development of the project. 
●	Any citable work produced by an industry professional is acceptable, e.g., whitepaper, online articles, manuals, videos, etc. 
●	The work only needs to relate to an aspect of your project, e.g., applied technology, a methodology used, risks, benefits, costs, etc. 
Review of work 1
Start with an overview of the article, including the work's title and an in-text citation, and summarize the major points discussed. Describe how the work relates to the proposed development of the project (in fulfillment of part B1).
Review of work 2
Start with an overview of the article, including the work's title and an in-text citation, and summarize the major points discussed. Describe how the work relates to the proposed development of the project (in fulfillment of part B1).
Review of work 3
Start with an overview of the article, including the work's title and an in-text citation, and summarize the major points discussed. Describe how the work relates to the proposed development of the project (in fulfillment of part B1).
Review of work 4
Start with an overview of the article, including the work's title and an in-text citation, and summarize the major points discussed. Describe how the work relates to the proposed development of the project (in fulfillment of part B1). 

C. Project Rationale

●	View Writing the Rationale and Current Environment Sections.
-this is based on the past, no right or wrong only the need to offer sufficient support. Usually rooted in business, technical or user needs. No right or wrong only one that makes sense
Summaries should include the rationale for choosing this project, including what makes this problem interesting or significant. The Project Rationale section (suggested length of 1–2 pages) provides a rationale for the project. It should address the reasons for implementing the project, as described in the Proposal Overview. The rationale may include and expand on business and technical reasons to support the implementation. Justify the selection of the project.

D. Current Project Environment
●	View Writing the Rationale and Current Environment Sections.
Upon site survey discovered obsolete HP procurve and Linksys Power over Ethernet (POE) switches
-This is based on the present. This is describing how things currently work, what’s wrong with the current system of state of affairs, then the proposed solution and how it addresses what’s wrong. Don’t assume how the reader will understand how this will fix things. Tell them how including what problems might arise with the solution and what long term impacts we might reasonably expect potential problems and expectations are an excellent thing to include.
This section (suggested length of 2–3 pages) describes and details the current project environment. It should also address specifically how the current state will set the direction for the definition and implementation of the proposed solution. Include other details that support the description as needed to support and briefly define the project environment. Analyze the systems and describe the status of the project environment before the project begins. 

E. Methodology

●	View Writing the Methodology, Goals, Objectives, and Deliverables Sections.
This section (suggested length of 1–2 pages) describes the specific methodology. The methodology is the process that the project will fill when implemented. Include specific details to adequately describe the steps that will take place to execute the project entirely. Explain how your standard methodology (such as ADDIE or SDLC) will apply to the implementation of the project.
●	Identify the standard methodology used. 
●	directly connect steps taken in your process to development phases of the standard methodology, e.g., analysis, design, etc.

F. Project Goals, Objectives, and Deliverables
●	View Writing the Methodology, Goals, Objectives, and Deliverables Sections.
In Project Goals, Objectives, and Deliverables (suggested length of 3–5 pages), provide a detailed explanation of the goals and objectives for the project and explain what the project will provide. There should be a specific identification of each goal and objective and a clear and logical description with adequate detail. Address and explain the criteria used to measure the objectives to demonstrate how each goal and objective is measured. The project will include a formal report. In addition, it will likely have a technical IT product, a user's manual, or other documentation. Deliverables should provide a detailed logical explanation of the project to substantiate the work and completion. Include the following in the description: 
F1. Goals, Objectives, and Deliverables Table
●	View Writing the Methodology, Goals, Objectives, and Deliverables Sections.
Every project has one or more goals. Each goal is supported by at least one project objective. Each objective is enabled by at least one project deliverable. Fill out this or a similarly organized table:

	Goal	Supporting objectives	Deliverables enabling the project objectives
1	Summarize project goal 1	1.a. Describe project objective 1.a.	1.a.i. Explain project deliverable 1.a.i
			1.a.ii. Explain project deliverable 1.a.ii
			…
		1.b. Describe project objective 1.b.	1.b.i. Explain project deliverable 1.b.i
			1.b.ii. Explain project deliverable 1.b.ii
			…
		…	…
			…
			…
2	Summarize project goal 2	2.a. Describe project objective 2.a.	2.a.i. Explain project deliverable 2.a.i
			2.a.ii. Explain project deliverable 2.a.ii
			…
		2.b. Describe project objective 2.b.	2.b.i. Explain project deliverable 2.b.i
			2.b.ii. Explain project deliverable 2.b.ii
			…
		…	…
			…
			…
…	…	…
	…
			…
			…
		…
	…
			…
			…
		…	…
             
F.2 Goals, Objectives, and Deliverables Descriptions
Describe each of the project goals. Describe each objective. Explain how the objectives support the goals and explain how the objectives will be achieved. Explain what types of deliverables the project will provide, and describe the project deliverables expected by the end of the project. Finally, define the goals, objectives, and deliverables that align with the Goals, Objectives, and Deliverables Table.

G.	Project Timeline with Milestones
●	View Writing the Timeline and Outcomes Sections.
This section (suggested length of 1–2 pages) provides a projected timeline with milestones for the project. These may be estimates that will most likely be adjusted, as the project will often require adjustments during the development and implementation phases. 
●	Include a narrative describing each milestone.
●	Include a table (as below) with projected milestones, duration, start, and end dates. Projections should be as authentic as possible without regard to academic plans. Dates from task 2 must be in the future, and dates from task 3 must be in the past -they do not need to align.  
Milestone or deliverable	Duration 
(hours or days)	Projected start date	Anticipated end date
			
			

H.	Outcome
●	View Writing the Timeline and Outcomes Sections.
This section describes the anticipated project outcomes and explains how the project's success will be measured once completed. Next, define the expected project outcomes and describe the evaluation framework to be used once the project is completed to assess the project's success and effectiveness.
 
I.	References 
●	List all the outside sources that the narrative refers to in the text.
●	Only list references with matching in-text citations.
●	Sources and grammar are the most common reasons for rejected submission.  
o	Evaluators use grammarly.com. The free side of gramamrly.com has been sufficient for this project.
o	We recommend using MS Word's 'reference' feature to manage citations and your reference page. Use this APA Quick Reference, follow the style of this Task 2 Proposal Example, and these formatting guidelines:
▪	For B. Other Works have at least four different works referenced using in-text citations.
▪	For every reference listed, have at least one in-text citation in APA style.
▪	Use consistent formatting.
▪	Use hanging Indent.
▪	Right-click to remove hyperlinks.
o	Get the best writing help from the writing experts: WGU Writing Center. You can set up an appointment or send them your document for review and suggestions. 

Smyth, A. M., Parker, A. L., & Pease, D. L. (2002). A study of enjoyment of peas. Journal of Abnormal Eating, 8(3), 120-125. Retrieved from 
http://www.articlehomepage.com/full/url/
Bernstein, M. (2002). 10 tips on writing the living Web. A List Apart: For People Who Make Websites, 149. Retrieved from http://www.alistapart.com/articles/writeliving
Bell, T., & Phillips, T. (2008, May 6). A solar flare. Science @ NASA Podcast. Podcast retrieved from http://science.nasa.gov/podcast.htm
OLPC Peru/Arahuay. (n.d.). Retrieved April 29, 2011, from the OLPC Wiki: http://wiki.laptop. org/go/OLPC_Peru/Arahuay
Plath, S. (2000). The unabridged journals. K. V. Kukil (Ed.). New York, NY: Anchor.




 
Appendix A
Title of Appendix
Put any supporting material in these appendices. Add additional or delete superfluous appendices as needed. 
Appendix B
Title of Appendix
Put any supporting material in these appendices. Add additional or delete superfluous appendices as needed. 
Appendix C
Title of Appendix
Put any supporting material in these appendices. Add additional or delete superfluous appendices as needed. 
Appendix D
Title of Appendix
Put any supporting material in these appendices. Add additional or delete superfluous appendices as needed.`

References
According to the VLAN Best Practices and Security tips Guide?
https://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/support/docs/smb/routers/cisco-rv-series-small-business-routers/1778-tz-VLAN-Best-Practices-and-Security-Tips-for-Cisco-Business-Routers.html
Dell practice guide
https://infohub.delltechnologies.com/static/media/a6db0ca1-66bd-46bd-a955-8f3604395191.pdf
Cisco reasoning behind 2 tier in our case:
https://www.ciscopress.com/articles/article.asp?p=2202410
or :
https://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/td/docs/solutions/CVD/Campus/cisco-campus-lan-wlan-design-guide.html
Campus design guide:
https://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/solutions/design-zone/networking-design-guides/campus-wired-wireless.html

VLAN Best Practices and Security Tips for Cisco Business Routers (referred to in dead-end vlan
https://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/support/docs/smb/routers/cisco-rv-series-small-business-routers/1778-tz-VLAN-Best-Practices-and-Security-Tips-for-Cisco-Business-Routers.html

Project deliverables
Appendix A: Final network diagrams of the physical topology of the campus. Included on these diagrams are the design notes and the connect speeds between the switches
Appendix B contains screen shots of the spreadsheets that document the IP address and VLAN schemes for the company
Appendix C contains screen shots of the network monitoring software that was installed to assist with the configuration, troubleshooting and day to day monitoring of the new network equipment. Passler?
